---
layout: nil
title: KPG
---
**Name:** KPG <input type='button' value='Back' onclick="Modalbox.show('http://kwpolska.co.cc/projects/kru/', {title: 'KRU', width: 600}); return false;" />  
**License:** GPLv3  
**[Download](https://github.com/downloads/Kwpolska/kru/kpg.tar.gz)**

## Description
The old version of this article published at my devel website was generated by KPG for one easy reason: PERFORMANCE. Because instead of generating the same thing each visit I can just generate it *once*. And then serve a HTML version to everybody. With Markdown syntax, not HTML. Why do you need to generate something from a database, when you can generate from a file with easier syntax? The KPG is quicker than this. KPG is licensed on GPLv3.

### README.md
KPG. The smaller brother of KWD.
==============

PURPOSE
-------
Generating HTML with the awesome Markdown.

INSTALLATION
------------
Edit kpgtemplate.html, put it somewhere and run configure. Want to use XHTML (you shall not!) - edit Markdown.pl.

NOTES
-----
Check out the syntax.md file for useful links.

USAGE
-----
./kpg /location/of/markdowned/file \[file2] \[file3] (and more) - the first line must be the title of your content. (will be removed)

COPYRIGHT
---------
Copyright (C) 2010 Kwpolska.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
